# Rubric for Project Checkpoint 2

Your project checkpoint 2 document is intended to provide me with a sense of where you are right now.  Your submission will be a Jupyter Notebook; please save your submission a `checkpoint2.ipynb` in the same directory as this rubric.  Note that I am requesting Jupyter notebooks for this submission to make it easier for you to generate and embed graphs. However, your Jupyter notebook should be well-formatted and clearly organized - I should not see unnecessary outputs or cells with warnings or debugging information generated by code. A handy trick here is to add `%%capture` to the top of any cell that you'd like to suppress the output for (see [example.ipynb](./example.ipynb) in this directory).

All code cells will be introduced - I should not see a output cell with a graph unless there is some text before that graph appears that explains what the cell is showing me.  For example, you might include a paragraph of text in a markdown cell that says something like:

> First we examined the distribution and correlation of the numeric columns in our data (`Age`, `Duration`, `Amount`, and `Frequency`).  We did this to identify any patterns that might suggest redundancies in existing features or new features.  As shown in the following, we found a strong correlation between `Age` and `Amount` suggesting to us that maybe one of these features could be dropped from the. model.   

After this, I would see one or more cells illustrating the identified correlation.

Also note that I don't want to see *everything* you did - only what is relevant. For instance, if all of your numeric columns are normally distributed, you can simply say that rather than providing a histogram for each column.  Similarly, if you ran a multiplot scatter matrix, but didn't see anything interesting, there is no reason to include it.

Your notebook will contain the following sections.

## Title

A nice short title for your project, helping me to understand roughly what it is you are trying to do.

## Team

Each project will have a team of 3-5 people (unless I have explicitly allowed you to have more people). This section should include the full names of each team member, **along with their github ids**, and indicate the point of contact for the group.

## Overview

This section will contain an overview of your current objectives.  It will _briefly_ answer the following questions from [Heilmeier's catechism](https://www.darpa.mil/work-with-us/heilmeier-catechism).

- What are you trying to do? Articulate your objectives using absolutely no jargon.
- What is new in your approach and why do you think it will be successful?  (be brief here, you can expand more later!)
- Who cares? If you are successful, what difference will it make? Importantly, who is your primary stakeholder, and what specific need are you addressing?

It is quite possible that these have changed since your last submission.  If so, please indicate what has changed and why.

## Data

This is one of the most important parts of this submission. You will include a link to the source of your data, and explain the work you have done to validate that this is a credible dataset. 

After this you will include interesting results from your exploratory data analysis.  I'd like to see information about distributions (possibly just a bit of text here if nothing interesting showed up), as well as attempts to visualize data to highlight specific patterns (possibly using dimensionality reductions techniques and / or clustering).  

## Preprocessing

If your data required some preprocessing (surely it did!) document your techniques here.  If this resulted in interesting transformations, you can include examples in code and visualizations to help me understand how the data was transformed.  If you did any sophisticated imputations (e.g. a custom imputation method) feel free to include a code snippet to show me how this was done.

## Modeling

You should have done some initial modeling at this point - for instance, running a simple random forest classifier or MLP to get some baseline information about the performance of your model.  Include any relevant statistic (e.g. F1-scores, confusion matrices, etc.).

## Problems & Challenges

Pleaes document any problems or challenges you have faced or are still facing.  What did you / are you going to do about these challenges?  If you haven't faced any challenges, include this section by simply state that you haven't encountered any challenges yet.

## Next steps

Tell me where you are going with the project; what are the next steps, and when do you think they will be done?  Include rough dates! 

# Grading

- Does your proposal include all of the above mentioned sections? [10 points]
- Are your objectives concrete and do you have a clear stakeholder need? [10 points]
- Do you have a good data source and have you done a thorough job investigating its provenance and credibility? [5 points]
- Did you do a thorough job exploring your data [10 points]
- Have you done some initial modeling of your problem and do you have some early baseline results? [10 points]
- Do you have a clear path forward [5 points]
